---
title: Cryptography Flashcards
author: 
- Rasmus Kirk Jakobsen
date: \today
geometry: margin=2cm
fontsize: 11pt
header: |
  \usepackage[style=iso]{datetime2}
  \usepackage{amsmath,bm}
  \newcommand*\mod{\bmod}
  \newcommand*\cat{\mathbin{+\mkern-10mu+}}
  \newcommand*\bor{\mathbin{\&\mkern-7mu\&}}
  \newcommand*\xor{\oplus}
  \newcommand*\B{\mathbb{B}}
  \newcommand*\Z{\mathbb{Z}}
  \newcommand*\E{\mathbb{E}}
  \newcommand*\O{\mathcal{O}}
  \newcommand*\H{\mathcal{H}}
  \newcommand*\a{\alpha}
  \newcommand*\b{\beta}
  \newcommand*\e{\epsilon}
  \newcommand*\beq{\stackrel{?}{=}}
  \renewcommand*\plainspace{\mathcal{P}}
  \renewcommand*\cipherspace{\mathcal{C}}
  \renewcommand*\keyspace{\mathcal{K}}
  \newcommand*\meq{\stackrel{?}{=}}
  \newcommand{\qed}{\hfill \ensuremath{\Box}}
  \newcommand{\enddef}{\hfill \ensuremath{\triangle}}
  \newcommand{\floor}[1]{\left \lfloor #1 \right \rfloor }
  \newcommand{\ceil}[1]{\left \lceil #1 \right \rceil }
  \newcommand{\vec}[1]{ \boldsymbol{#1} }
  \newcommand{\ran}[1]{ \mathrm{#1} }
  \newcommand{\ranvec}[1]{ \boldsymbol{\ran{#1}} }
---

# What is Perfect Security?

**Definition 5.1 (Perfect Security):** $P[x|y] = P[x]$
$\enddef$

# What is the requirements to have Perfect Security?

**Theorem - $|\keyspace| \geq |\cipherspace| \geq |\plainspace|$:** If you have
perfect security then $|\keyspace| \geq |\cipherspace| \geq |\plainspace|$.
$\enddef$

# What is the Definition of Entropy?

**Definition 5.6 (Entropy):**
$$H(X) = \sum^n_{i=1} p_i \log_2(1/p_i)$$
**TLDR:** The entropy $H(X)$ can be described as: 

- How many bits we need to send on average to communicate the value of $X$.
- The amount of uncertainty you have about $X$ before you are told what the
  value is.
$\enddef$

# What is the Definition of Jensen's inequality?

$$\sum^n_{i=1} p_i f(x_i) \leq f(\sum^n_{i=1} p_i x_i)$$

- $f$ must be concave
- Equality **iff** all $x_i$ is equal 
$\enddef$

# What is the bounds for entropy?
$$0 \leq H(X) \leq \log_2(n)$$. 

- $H(X) = 0$ **iff** one value $X$ has probability 1 (and the others 0). 
- $H(X) = log_2(n)$ **iff** it is uniformly distributed, i.e., all probabilities are $1/n$.
$\enddef$

# What is the definition of Conditional Entropy

**Definition 5.9:** Given the above definition of $H(X \;|\;Y = y_j)$, we define
the conditional entropy of X given Y to be:
$$H(X \;|\; Y) = \sum_j P[Y = y_j] H(X \;|\; Y = y_j)$$
$\enddef$

# What is the entropy of $K \;|\; C$?

**Theorem 5.11:** $H(K \;|\; C) = H(K) + H(P) - H(C)$ **iff** deterministic encryption function
$\enddef$

# What is the Definition of the Average Bits of Information per Letter ($H_L$)?

**Definition - Average Bits of Information per Letter:** $H_L = \lim_{n \mapsto \infty} H(P_n)/n$
$\enddef$

# What is the Definition of redundancy ($R_L$)?

**Definition - Redundancy:** 
$$R_L = \frac{\log(|\plainspace|) - H_L}{\log(|\plainspace|)} = 1 - \frac{H_L}{\log(|\plainspace|)}$$
$\enddef$

# What is the Definition of spurious keys?

**Definition - Spurious Keys:** A spurious key _seems_ to be the correct key but is not.
$\enddef$

# What is the Definition of the average Number of Spurious Keys?

**Definition - Number of Spurious Keys:** 
$$sp_n = \sum_{\vec{y} \in \cipherspace^n} P[y](|K(\vec{y})| - 1) = \sum_{\vec{y} \in \cipherspace^n} P[y]|K(\vec{y})| - 1$$
$$K(\vec{y}) = \{ K \in \keyspace \; | \; P[D_K(\vec{y} > 0)]\}$$
$$P[y] = \sum_{(x, K) : E_K(x) = y} P[x]P[K]$$
$\enddef$


# What is the definition of unicity distance?

**Definition 5.12:** The unicity distance $n_0$ of a cryptosystem is the
minimal length of plaintexts such that $sp_{n_0} = 0$, if such a value exists,
and $\infty$ otherwise.  
$\enddef$

# What is the lower bound of unicity distance?

**Theorem 5.13:** Assume we have a cryptosystem with deterministic encryption
function, where the plaintext and ciphertext alphabets have the same size
$(|\cipherspace| = |\plainspace|)$, and where keys are uniformly chosen from
$\keyspace$. Assume we use the system to encrypt sequences of letters from
language $L$. Then
$$n_0 \geq \frac{\log(|\keyspace|)}{R_L \log(|\plainspace|)}$$
**TLDR:** If we reuse keys, our unconditional security will always be gone,
once we encrypt enough plaintext under the same key. The only exception is
the case where $R_L = 0$ which leads to $n_0$ being $\infty$. Which makes
sense, if every sequence of characters is a plaintext that can occur, the
adversary can never exclude a key.
$\enddef$
